>> Scott Moss: And then for abstraction,
which is what we're gonna be doing here,
is that we can create sub routers.
So everything up to this point,
we've just been creating,
everything on the router level.
But because we have, we're gonna have many
different resources for our REST API,
we can create sub routers, which allows
a different part of our API to have its
own router, its own middleware stack.
It's own everything and
whether it's an opt in to inherit
from a parent router or not.
So it's, you can think of
it as just a nested router.
Or, if you think of routes as a tree, this
is just a branch on that route, basically.
It's just its own branch.
It stills comes from the tree, but
it's got its own branch, its own rules,
its own everything.
So Express allows you
to do that very simple.
So that allows you to,
separate your code and
abstract it out to where
like it's pretty neat.
And you can collocate code in certain
places if you have a folder with all your
different resources,
which is exactly what we're gonna have.
So it allows that to happen versus
putting every single thing in one file,
in one route where it can get pretty,
I mean you might have a 500 line file
full of routes, which is kinda scary.
So this helps prevent that.
>> Scott Moss: So what that looks like is,
using Express we can make a router.
So we can just say,
I'm gonna make a router, and to do that,
you just use Express.Router with
a capital R, and that makes a router.
Now just how controllers and middleware
are basically the same thing except for
the intention.
The router and the app are,
when it comes to routing,
they're basically the same thing.
A router can't do things like,
listen on a port and stuff like that.
But as far as registering routes and
verb combinations, the router can do
the exact same thing as the app can.
So just to show you, so
if I come down here and
I'm just gonna make some
routes on the router.
So I'm gonna take that router,
I'm gonna say router dot,
let me just clean this up a little bit.
>> Scott Moss: Go away.
There we go.
So I'm gonna say
router.get, slash me.
And I'm just gonna send
back some json here.
>> Scott Moss: Or I'll also say, send.
Cool.
So I said router.get/me.
Right now, the router's disconnected.
All I did was make a router,
and I registered a route on it.
It won't actually do anything.
I can't actually go to this route,
because I have to register this router
with the route router, which is our app.
App is always a route router, so right
now, it's just a leaf floating somewhere,
but now, I need to attach it to the tree.
So how do I do that?
I need to register it with the app
somehow, and the way you do that is,
just like middleware,
it treats it exactly the same way.
It's called mounting, so now,
I just need to mount this
router on this app somewhere.
And I can do that pretty easily just
by saying, app.use which is saying,
hey, I wanna use this middleware for
everything.
There's no route combination here,
this is for every for
every path, I wanna use this middleware.
So I can do that.
And I could just pass in a path here.
So I'm gonna say app.use.
I'll just say ('/api').
So if a request comes in for
any verb that has /api on it,
I'm gonna use this router that I created.
>> Scott Moss: So
it's gonna delegate to that.
>> Scott Moss: So if I go here and
I say /api/me and
I run this, I'll get me hello.
>> Scott Moss: Which is
exactly what's here.
Because I went to /api, right?
And just to test that,
if I don't go to /api me, I just go to me,
I get a 404 because there
is no such thing as /me.
There's only /api/me.
>> Scott Moss: Cool on that?
>> Scott Moss: Any questions
on the subrouting?
That's basically it, and like I said, a
router has the same thing as app does, so
if I wanted to register middleware on
the router, I could do the same thing.
I could do router.use here.
I could do all of that,
it's the exact same thing.
Any questions on that?
>> Speaker 2: So
why would you use router over app.get?
>> Scott Moss: The reason you would use
router is if you just didn't wanna put
everything in the same file, honestly.
Or if you had, if some part of your API
had its own set of rules that you wanted
to isolate just for that part of the API,
then you would make another router for it.
For instance, let's say you had
an API that serves static assets
that also serves json, it served this
proprietary machine learning thing.
And the json one had a different
authentication strategy than a machine
learning one did, right?
So if you added the authentication
strategy as middleware to the route,
it'll lock the whole API down.
That's not what you want, you need
different authentication strategies for
different things.
So you would make another router for
this part of your API, for the json, and
register it's authentication
strategy on it's middleware and
then the machine learning one would have
it's authentication strategy on it's
middleware, and
they don't conflict with each other.
So it's like I got separate rules for
separate things, yes?
>> Speaker 2: And now,
how can we, I'm just saying,
if you have lots of pieces
combining those routes,
how can we, I mean, how can, from any
point, can we look at the routes that are?
>> Scott Moss: In what file?
>> Speaker 2: [CROSSTALK], yeah.
>> Scott Moss: You can't, so
you lose out on that, right?
>> Speaker 2: Really?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so
if you have, right, if you take all these
out, and you put them in different files,
then, there's no way to look
at all of them in one place.
So you lose out on that.
>> Speaker 2: No,
I'm saying if there's a big application.
There's only one part and you wanna make
sure you're not conflicting with anything.
It's just like, okay, at this point,
what kinda routes are there?
>> Scott Moss: I said you mean.
There's no way a doing that either.
>> Speaker 2: At them.
Yeah Like even debug?
>> Scott Moss: No,
there's no way because as we saw,
it's just whichever's first
that is going to happen, right?
>> Scott Moss: So the only way you would
run into a problem is if you started
getting unexpected things like well,
what is that, that's not what I expected.
It's hard to debug because it'll
just goes to the next one.
>> Speaker 2: It just goes
through all those trees right?
>> Scott Moss: It just goes through
the whole tree until it finds a match.
The only time it'll error
is if there is no match.
You'll get a 404,
like there's no match, I'm a 404 here.
But yeah,
if you got this crazy business logic and
you eventually have something overriding,
then yeah.
I've never ever run into that problem.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah it shouldn't happen,
but.
>> Scott Moss: The way you can avoid it
is because eventually you have to tie
the routers back to
the application somewhere.
You have to tie them back, right?
>> Speaker 2: There has to be some
other point that actually has
the information on it.
>> Scott Moss: Right, so
like right here I have the app.use /api.
That's the mount path.
All I know is, I just don't do this again.
I just can't use /api now.
If I do /api and put another router here
then I'm gonna have unexpected problems.
So I know now I'm gonna have to
put something different here.
And then now it doesn't matter.
If this router had /me and another
router that I put here also had /me,
they'll never conflict because
they have different parent paths.
They have /diff and /api.
So this basically, where you mount it is
kind of where you get rid of that problem.